Here we have our final project, again.
And what we're going to do in this video is we are going to
build out this section right here,
our search contact section.
And eventually what that's going to allow us to do,
is that's going to allow us to filter our list,
which introduces the topic of forms in React.
There is actually a few different ways that you could think about forms in React.
The first way is to bypass components stay completely,
and have your input filled right directly to the DOM,
and whatever you want to get a specific value from your input field,
you crap that from the DOM.
Now, that's the typical way that you would do it.
But if you think about the idea of React,
React is really good at managing state.
So a lot of times, it makes states who also put your form state,
inside of your components state.
So what we're going to do in this video,
is we are going to bind our input field,
to whatever the value of a certain property on our state is.
And what that's going to do,
is that's going to allow us to update the UI,
based on this form data.
So here, if I come and type a t,
you'll notice that we are filtering our list,
but we're also showing this section right here.
So a good rule of thumb is,
if you want your form data to update the UI in
any other way besides just updating the input field itself,
then go ahead and make your form what's called a controlled component where
React as controlling the state of the simple field.
But if you're not worried about having your UI based off the form data,
then you can go ahead and just stick this form data in the DOM somewhere,
and you can grab it when you need it.
So we can see this in action by looking at the React developer tools.
This is just a Chrome extension that you can get in the Google Chrome store,
but what it allows us to do,
is it allows us to view our app as a tree structure,
and what's even nicer, it allows us to
see certain props and certain state of a component.
So here we have our list contacts component.
You'll notice that we are receiving these two props,
then we also have this query history.
So if I come in here and type t,
you'll notice that our state updates.
But what's happening here,
is that our UI is updating based off of the state.
So as I mentioned, what we're going to do in this video,
is we were going to bind this input field to the state.
Now that's a little bit backwards because what you would expect to have happen,
is you'd expect to bind the value of
this query property of the state, to our input field.
But what's really happening,
is the input value is going to be whatever state dot query is.
So what we're going to do, is in order to update our input field,
is we need to update our state.
So it's not super intuitive right now,
but again, what that allows us to do,
is by having our input field state living inside of a component,
we can go ahead and update our UI based on that state.
So let's go ahead and see how that works.
So as I mentioned, we're going to be adding state to
our list contacts component because we're going to bind the input field,
that we're going to eventually build to our component states.
So what we'll need to do, is refactor from using
a stateless functional component to a class component.
So we come in here, and go back to what we had earlier,
which was extending component.
And then we can move all of this UI into our render method here.
And then the last update we need to make as far as transforming to a class component,
is let's add a property to our class.
And this will also show you how to add proptypes to a class.
All we need to do is add
a static proptypes property on our class which is the same object.
So now we've updated from a stateless functional component to a class component.
The next thing we need to do is instead of
accessing our props from just the props object,
we need to access it from this,
the instance of the component.props.
So now our app is back to normal.
So first, let's add a property to our component state object here.
And we will just say query,
and we'll set it equal to an empty string.
And then what we want to do is,
we actually want to build out that input field.
So what we will do, is let's wrap everything inside of this div,
which we will give a class name of list contacts.
So let's throw our unordered list,
or our ordered list inside of this div.
And then now what we can do,
is let's build out our input field here.
So this is going to go inside of a div,
we'll give it a class name of list-contacts top.
And then now we get to build out this input field.
So what we'll have is a normal input field.
We'll give it a class name of search contacts,
a type of text,
placeholder will be search contacts.
So this should all look normal to you so far.
But now what we want to do,
is we want to add two new properties to this value,
as well as on change.
So what we want the value again of this input field to be,
is whatever this.state.query is.
And then now what we need to do,
is we need to figure out a way to whenever the input field changes,
we want to update the query property on our state,
because then that will update the value inside of the input field.
So what we can do, is let's add an update query method up here,
which will take in the query.
And then in order to update the state, what we can do,
is we'll call set states,
and query will be the query that's being passed in,
and then we will just call.trim on it.
And so now, when on change is invoked,
what we want to do is invoke this arrow function which will pass the event.
And then we want to invoke our update query method,
passing it the specific input,
or the specific value in the input field which we can get by saying event.target.value.
So now that we have our input field,
in order to see what our state is,
what we can do is let's come in our render method,
and we will call JSON.stringify passing it the start state.
So now we have this query property right here,
it's set to an empty string because that was what we had.
The default value be here inside of the state property,
and now as we type into here,
you'll notice that what's happening is we
are updating this state based on whatever is in the input field.
So what we will do in the next video,
is we will show how we can filter our list now,
based on this input field.